We've danced around this topic a lot at
this point and I'd love to address this.
So as a recap on the context of
what we're talking about is,
at this point we're talking
about children components,
trying to figure out how the heck
to update the parent component.
Because we've talked about the fact
that well, we don't wanna mutate props,
as we can see very clearly here,
we're being yelled at, don't mutate props.
On the other hand, we talked about passing
functions down as in like, if there was
a method on this component that was called
change name, and call it this data.user.
Data.name equals or
say this is like an argument for
new name and then just like that, right.
And so then you'll be like,
okay, well inside of user,
I'm gonna pass this
method called changeName.
And then it'll take on
the reference to that method and
then we have this changeName,
which is a function.
And then it's let's say required true and
then let's say we have a button here
that's like hey like changeName.
That's like most people's
instinctual way and
how a lot of frameworks
approach this problem.
Because the parent is telling it what to
change and the child obediently does it.
The thing about this mental model though
is that it forgoes the fact that actually
if we think about how the web is designed,
when we have child DOM elements,
what do we have do?
We have it bubble up events,
that's actually how the web is built
natively if we think about it.
It's not actually the parent is
telling it what to do it's saying,
when that a button that a child has
happened, it bubbles up that event,
that's where we get these concepts, right.
That a click has happened therefore,
how does this relate to
the chain of communication?
And so what we're gonna talk about right
now basically at this point is how we can
basically emit custom
events from our child,
to tell the parent that
something is happening.
So let's actually go ahead and
just take this user card example, why not,
why wouldn't we?
So let's go ahead and
just set this context up a bit so
let me just remove this.
And how we would do this, actually I
think I might be able to leave that.
For now let's do this, change name, okay.
So let's make sure everything's at least
rendering correctly on our side for
the app, okay.
So let's start with something simple,
which is that if we click
a button from the child,
it will basically tell the parent
that hey, I want to change the name.
And that when that happens,
what we want it to do is this
is updated directly to Charlie.
So we won't even worry
about arguments right now.
And so again right here just to show
that this works if we add the click,
and we add change name, change now.
You'll see Ben does switch to
Charlie as expected, okay.
As expected, but this method is
existing all the way up here.
So how the heck does a user
card get access to that,
without you passing the prop
down as a function?
Well, the way we do that
is with this concept,
it's new to Vue 3,
did not exist the Vue 2 call it emits.
An emit is the equivalent of props,
props is saying hey,
this is what I'm expecting to send down.
Emits is our way of documenting,
hey, this is what I'm gonna send up.
So if you think about it, this is actually
following the one way data chain of
unidirectional data flow,
because, the data comes down.
And then you're basically
sending a signal up to say,
hey, I want something to change.
And then the basically the parent knows
change it then send that change back down.
So in that regard,
it follows that traditional web model.
And so to show you what that means,
we'll say emits so again,
emit the event change name, all right.
And so the key thing with the emits is to
think of this as custom events, right?
We're used to click, key up,
those are things that are events
that already defined for us.
This is a custom event
that we're emitting, okay?
And so, what we get to do then,
is once we have our emits defined,
we get to do is we get to call a global
method called emit dollar sign emit.
And so if this is your first time using
Vue, despite you're probably wondering,
what is this dollar sign here?
It's basically views way of name scoping
is a global function that is available to
view specifically.
So now that you know this is not
just something in JavaScript,
this is a view thing.
We're gonna emit what,
we're gonna emit change name, okay.
And this is now where the dev
tools become very handy.
Instead of the dev tools there is this
tab right here called a timeline.
And what it allows you to do is actually
notice when different events are happening
so you notice that if I just
click on the page here,
it actually does gives me a timeline
of snapshot of what's happening.
It even actually has the coordinates
on here I am noticing.
And so you see, it actually tells you
the actual position of what's happening,
and so when it comes to debugging,
this is pretty darn useful.
And so you notice here though, if I click
changeName, something happens here.
So let me scroll over,
I think it's losing the scroll,
okay, it's right over here.
I think I zoomed out too much.
Refresh, there we go.
Where is my sidebar
view reload component's
timeline, I hit it, here we go.
My gosh, and I was like, where did it go,
okay, click change name and
we'll see a couple things here.
One, you see right here,
change name event has been emitted, and so
it's been emitted by user card.
And so you also know that it
happened with a click as well,
because you'll see that here, it has
the mouse up mouse down the click event.
And then here is where we
get that change name event.
And you notice here, it actually tells
you a little bit more about the event
info that, is from the component
user card the event is changing.
But also, we haven't gotten to this yet,
we can actually pass parameters up.
Because sometimes you're gonna be
customizing stuff at the child level, but
you need to say, here's some of
the customizations I'm sending up to
the parent and
this is what I'm gonna send.
And so when you do this, what happens is.
On your component,
we get the ability to listen to.what?
Listen to our custom event which is what,
change name.
So this is no different than our at click,
at key up.
So I'm actually go ahead and delete at,
because that's my prefered and
then from here what are we
gonna do when this is called,
we're gonna run the method change name.
Okay, there we go.
NPM run dev.
There we go, yeah I figured.
So, this takes some getting used
to because I know that again,
this is not traditionally how
people are thinking of things.
But It's funny when we think about
the primitives were given when building
with the web.
Event bubbling is a very standard
way of building with things and
more importantly I think, it allows for
I'll call it like a cleaner
way of removing that.
He's sort of strict instructions that
you're passing down from the parent when
you just pass the function.
Because now all of a sudden that function,
I've just seen in code bases,
when people do that it just gets
hairy in terms of like people,
then they start passing
in the wrong function.
Cz then you have to make sure the function
is doing what you want it to in the child,
which means you actually now
have to check the parent,
to make sure that it kind of makes sense.
Whereas like when you just emit an event
this child component will use in a lot of
different contexts.
And then the parent can do
whatever it wants with it and
it makes sense because you're saying, when
the child component has this custom event,
I'm gonna run this function
which lives in this file.
And so in that regard,
it really does help to really encapsulate
that single file component mentality.
We're also building on web standards and
principles,
that we're actually using on a day
to day but often overlooked, yeah.
>> If you were to bubble up multiple
levels, would you have to catch it, emit,
remit it?
>> Yep.
>> You can't just say, emits, emits,
emits, emits the whole way up.
>> You cannot, and so that's a great
question, so let me read it.
So the question here is that right now we
just have a single parent single child,
one omit whatever.
What happens when you have like a great
great great grandchild wanting to
communicate info up.
And so, emits and
props really are designed for
a closer relationship like
when you're closer together.
This prompt actually
had that same problem.
And so the pattern that actually the anti
pattern that resulted from that is called
prop drilling, and so you have app to view
has this global thing and then you joe
joe joe joe, pro pro pro and like none of
the components use it until like this one.
But then the problem with prop drilling
is that the moment you remove one in
the middle, the whole thing
just falls apart immediately.
The answer to this is
basically using composable and
state management in a way that is.
At that point I would argue,
If you have data that is shared across
components at that depth,
it probably makes sense for
it to be encapsulated in a module that
can just be shared across both files.
The props is really in my mind design when
there's a tight coupling between the two
components, and
you want it to behave a certain way.
Otherwise, what we'll see here later on is
around, other flexible APIs that allow it
to do more than just sort of these sort
of rigid instructions between components.
Does that help to answer your question?
>> Is there an emit equivalent in Vue 2?
>> Okay, so good question,
in regards to Vue 2,
the $ sign emit actually
does exist as a function.
So, it's not that your custom
events are not new to Vue 3.
What is new to Vue 3 is the fact that you
can basically document them inside of your
options.
Because the problem,
then this was a misstep on I guess on
our part we didn't think about it.
Is that when you don't have this emits
property, it seems like a small thing, but
if you start emitting multiple events, it
starts getting really hurried to track in
a big component of like, wait,
what events are happening?
Where is it, I mean,
that's why we have prop definitions too,
actually it's to let, hey,
what am I expecting to receive?
The emit does the opposite for us where
what kind of events are you expecting to
emit so that people don't just
randomly create their own.
And so to be clear, and
just to kind of wrap that up.
If you don't like emitting directly here,
we can actually just do something
like tellParentChangeName.
And this can just be a method,
tellParentChangeName, and
we can do this dot dollar sign emit,
this will be the same exact thing.
It's up to you whether you wanna call it
here or you just wanna call it inline.
Once again,
I think that's more of a stylistic thing.
Cuz some people would be like, well,
if it's just this one event and I'm not
tracking that much, I'm just gonna inline
it.B ecause it's not really being reused.
On the other hand, if you have this being
called a bunch of places, you might not
really wanna define that everywhere,
you might wanna change it in one place.